NARRATOR: A male black rhino
wants to mate with a female.
But she's only interested
in protecting her calf.
Even though she weighs
as much as a powerboat,
he drives her backwards
through the dirt.
[grunting]
Kicking up huge clouds of dust.
Now engulfed in the haze, her
calf is in extreme danger.
Rhino eyesight is poor.
In clear conditions, they can
only see up to 100 feet away.
In the thick dust, the male
could easily trample the calf.
The mother spins
around to run away,
but the big male won't stop.
In his frenzy, he uses his
deadly tip 2-foot long horn
and lifts her back end
clear off the ground.
She may have
inch-thick hide, but he
could still puncture her side.
If she's injured, her baby's
life could be at risk.
[grunting]
The cloud begins to clear.
And the baby is unharmed.
The big bull realizes that even
though he can push this mother
around, she's no pushover.